Everyone. So we're going to attack the Catbook
debugging challenge, step one. So before we get
into it, I'm going to git checkout. Well,
I'll git reset just to make sure that
I don't have anything there because I don't
need anything. And then I'll git checkout debug
challenge. Alright. I'll make sure that NPM start
and NPM run dev are running properly. And
now before we do anything, let's just see
what's going on in oh, Catbook. Okay. What
does this error say? It says let cannot
be used as an identifier in strict mode.
I don't know what the heck that means.
I don't know what the heck this means
either, but I do recognize okay. Syntax error
in the feed dot JSX file, so I'm
gonna click on that. Or rather, I guess
I'll just go here. Feed dot JSX. Oh,
and I get a red thing from my
Versus code saying reverse story objects, comma, expected.
I don't know what that means, but I
do know that in a dot then, the
argument to a dot then is a callback
function. This right here is not a function
definition. A function definition has parentheses where you
put in the input, and then an arrow,
and then curly braces to denote the body
of the function. So there. That's one thing
fixed. But then notice how here we're using
this thing called stories response. So probably that
would be un that wouldn't be defined unless
we defined it here. I'm assuming that's going
to be an input to my callback function.
Now what does stories response actually represent? Well,
in this case, we do a GET request
to slash API slash stories, and then we
take whatever we got, which is stories response,
and that gets fed into this callback function
as stories response. So then that's a list
of all these different stories, so we just
reverse that list and then set that, reacts
set our react state to the output of
that or to the reverse list of stories
that we got back from our git endpoint.
So let's see if that works. We'll refresh
the page. Oops. Need to make sure I
save my file. Oh, four zero four not
found. Phenomenal. So in this case, since the
error is on the browser side, it might
be that I always like to check the
browser console first. So let's see. Oh, reference
error props is not defined at single story.
So let's go to single story dot JSX.
And, ah, here, we're using props.creator name and
props.content. Clearly, this single story component is supposed
to take in props, but right now, we
are not taking that as an input to
our function. Remember that a React component is
just a function that takes in props or
takes in some kind of information and then
spits out HTML or more specifically JSX, which
is basically, like, a React version of HTML
based on those props. So we need to
take in the props as an input. Alright.
Let's go back and see if we fix
things. Okay. That's promising. This looks a little
bit better than before, but, oh, in my
console, I have these errors. Get something not
found. Okay. That's odd. And it has says
here, it's slash API slash comments, and here
I'll notice that I can't see the comments.
So, clearly, there's some issue with the GET
request that allows us to actually get and
display our comments. And if I wanna look
into more detail as to what these requests
actually are, I can go to the network
tab and see where ah, so I get
this error in the response that says root
not found. And then the request URL, it
says localhost slash API slash comments parent ID
equals three. Well, that's odd because, typically, when
we send a GET request, there use there
has to be a question mark that separates
the, the URL that we're requesting from the
query parameters. And here, there's no question mark
between comments and parent. So that's probably where
the error is coming from, but we don't
know where exactly that question mark is, like,
coming where where that should go. So here,
let's look at where this comment's, GET request
is being sent. I could search around to
find it, but I know off the top
of my head that that's in card. I'm
gonna open up card. By the way, if
you wanna search for a file, you could
just do control or I'm guessing on Mac
command and p and then type in the
name of the file. Alright. So I'm gonna
look at where this GET request is being
made. Here, I use the built in GET
function or the the WebLab staff provided GET
function to get slash API slash comments with
this parent. It seems like here is not
where we're actually constructing and putting together the
URL for the GET request. It seems like
that logic has been compartmentalized into this GET
function. So let's go to where that's defined.
I'll right click on that and go to
go to definition, and it takes me to
utilities.js. Ah, here it is. We do const
full path, which is just the full, like,
thing that you might put in a URL
bar, like, the full URL, basically, is the
endpoint, which in this case, when we called
get was slash API slash comments. So a
slash API slash comments plus the parameters that
we passed in, which in this case is
parentprops.ID. It seems like we're supposed to have
a question mark, but we don't have one,
between the endpoint and the parameters, so I'm
just gonna add that. And now let's see
what happens. Let's refresh the page. Ah, it
works. And so now you'll notice in the
network tab that these comments are made to
the correct URL. Now they're being made to
our localhost slash API slash comments and then
the question mark and then parent and then
our query parameters afterwards. Great. Now we can
correctly view our comments. Alright. Let's test things
out and see if there are any other
bugs that we might be able to find.
Oh, well, one bug here is that typically
we're supposed to display whoever wrote the story,
but right now, these are just blank. So
I'm not getting any errors or anything, but
it seems like something is not displaying that
should be displaying. So let's look at where
that might be coming from. I'm just gonna
pull up real quick to reference the React
componentry. It seems like okay. In feed, there's
card and then a single story. I'm guessing
single story or maybe card is where the
creator is supposed to be displayed. So let's
check both of those and see where the
issue might be. So let's go into single
story. Ah, here, single story is the one
displaying the creator name. Here, and it's passed
into single story as a prop. Well, it
seems like there's no problem with single story
just taking the prop called, taking the prop
and displaying it. So let's see where single
story is where where we're actually, like, creating
a single story component. What's the parent of
the single story component? If we look at
our React component tree again, then we notice
that the parent of single story is card.
What does that mean? Well, that means that
card has this single story component defined within
it. So remember that a parent and child
relationship in React is just a it just
means that there is a component inside of
another component. So here, there's a single store
component inside of a card component right here.
And that's what it means, that single store
is a child of card. Okay. So here
in card, we're passing in an ID, which
looks like the same as what SingleStory expects.
And then we're passing in a prop called
creator with the prop creator name that card
received from its parent. But that's kind of
odd because here, it names in in card
when we're passing this prop into single story.
We're naming it creator. Whereas here, it looks
like single story expects the prop to have
an attribute called creator name. So this disconnect
is what creates the problem, and so we
just need to make sure that creator that
the this is named the exact same thing
when it's being passed into the single story
component as when the single story component is
receiving and using that prop. Alright. Let's see
if it renders properly now. Cool. Now I
can see who wrote all of my stories.
Alright. And then let's try posting a story.
That works fine if I refresh the page.
Let's try posting a comment. And if I
refr oh, what happened there? If I refresh
the page, my comment is gone. That's odd.
So what does that mean? Well, since I
type in a comment here and it displays
properly on the front end, that means that
the front end knows the comment that I
typed. So there's no issue with me, like,
typing stuff in and then hitting the submit
button. It's some issue with how that information
is getting sent to the back end, or
maybe how the information is getting stored in
the back end, some lack of getting sent
properly or getting stored properly. So this will
require us to trace the whole line of
where of how this comment gets sent to
the back end. Okay. So I know that
when I type in the comment and then
hit the submit button, that's in the new
comment component. So I'll start my search there.
Let's go to new comment. Oh, that will
be a new post input.JSX. And then here,
I've defined my new comment component. Okay. So
here, I have a new post input with
this on submit, and then I pass in
a function called add comment. And what happens
with new post input is new post input
takes in that prop, the on submit for
new comment. And then it says the on
submit should be a function that's triggered when
the post is submitted. So, basically, as soon
as I hit the submit button, I know
that the punct function that I pass into
the on submit for a new post input
will be called. So the function that's called
in the case of a new comment is
this add comment function, which is defined right
here. So what I have in here is
exactly what I want to happen when I
hit the submit button, in the in the
comment typey thing. Well, that's reasonable enough. But
then here's something interesting. The add new comment
function is calling there sorry. This add comment
function is calling this add new comment function
that was passed into new comment as a
prop. Well, that's kind of odd. What is
that doing? And that to to figure out
where that is, we need to figure out
what the parent of new comment is. So
here, I'm gonna just take a look at
my nifty component tree again, and notice that
here, new comment is a child of comments
block. Okay. So let's look at comments block
and see what's going on there. Just going
to here. Comments block. Just as we expected,
comments block imports new comments. That's promising. And
here, it looks like oh, here inside comments
block where we have a new comment component.
But here, it looks like we're just passing
down in for the add new comment prop,
passing down whatever we receive from comments the
parent of comments block. So here, there's an
identical prop, add new comment, that we're passing
basically through comments block from whatever just above
comments block. So let's look at our component
tree again. Oh, it looks like new comment
is the child of comments block, which is
child of card. So let's go to look
at card because it looks like the add
new comment function might have been originally passed
down to card and then to comments block
and then to new comment. If we open
up card.JSX, card is the parent of comments
block. Oh, this looks promising. And add new
comment function. Let's just make sure that this
is exactly what we think it is. Okay.
So here inside card, there's a comments block
because comments block is the child of card.
As we can see, comments block is below
card in our component tree. And that is
passing in this add new comment function, which
is defined right up here in card. Okay.
So now we can figure out finally what
this does, what add new comment is actually
doing. Ah, here, it's just sending a post
request to slash API slash comment with whatever
it receives as an input to this function.
Okay. So this is a function that takes
in some kind of input and just sends
that input directly as the body of a
post request to the back end. Alright. Interesting.
So when does we when do we call
this add new comment function? Well, in new
post input, we saw earlier that this is
the place where the add new comment function
is called. So this add new comment function
is defined in card, gets passed down through
comments block, and then to new comment, which
is this component here. And then in new
comment, it calls this function with, this whole
representation of a comment in j in as
a JavaScript object as the input. So we
call this function, and what that's going to
do is it's going to call the function
that was defined here with all of this
as the input, and then it's going to
pass that into the post request in the
back end. So, eventually, what gets sent to
the back end is this stuff right here
that I have highlighted. So now we just
need to make sure that what we have
what we're sending to the back end here
is what we want to be sending to
the back end and what the back end
expects to be receiving. So I'm gonna get
rid of you guys for the time being
so we can just compare this, and I'll
just reformat it a bit so it's a
little easier to read, is what the back
end expects to be receiving. So our back
end is defined in API.js, and we'll split
screen that. And this is the post comment
endpoint that's going to be receiving this as
its body. Okay. So here we have it
just takes in the the body, which is
this comment, which is this thing, and then
adds it to our list of comments, and
then sends it back to the front end.
Okay. Interesting. Well, that doesn't really quite tell
us what we expect the comment to look
like. But here's I suppose okay. One thing
I could do is to is if I'm
debugging and I'm not sure what is what
this back end expects. Well, one, if I'm
writing a back end, this is a good
reason why we have API documentation, which this
API is not super well documented. So when
you're making your apps, you typically wanna write
up a document that tells you that tells,
like, you as the developer exactly what your
back end expects to receive. But for the
since we don't have that yet and we're
gonna add that once we do databases, I'm
just gonna look at what the comments look
like and just see if the format matches
properly. So here I have underscore ID. That's
present here. Okay. That's promising. Here I have
creator underscore name with a string. Here I
also have creator underscore name with a string.
Okay. Here, I have parent and then some
string. Oh, well, that's interesting. This says parent
story instead of parent. Dang. It's a different
it's a different key name. So, basically, JavaScript
won't be able to understand what that is.
And the reason that our bug looks the
way it does, as in I can add
a new comment, but then when I refresh,
it's all gone, is because we're adding a
comment to this that has the the field
attribute parent story equal to something, not parent.
But when we get the comments, remember, we're
filtering out for the comments where the attribute
parent is equal to the parent that we're
looking for. And so if these new comments
that we're adding don't actually have the attribute
like parent, just parent, not parent story, then
JavaScript isn't going to know what that is.
And parent's gonna be like this is gonna
say, like, undefined. That's not going to be
equal to anything. All of our comments will
just kind of be disappeared. So we just
need to change this to be parent, and
then, hopefully, we will be chilling. K. And
we just refreshed, and it stayed there. Amazing.
And this is all of the debug changes
that we had for, the original debug challenge
branch. This was hopefully, the video hopefully or
the video went a little fast. But if
you really take the time to sit down
with it and make sure you understand how
everything works, then I hope that it will
be a good way for you to learn.
Thank you.